# Thread 2 Deliverables: Metadata tools and services

1. An API interface definition and implementation in Java or Python of a library for executing metadata completeness and quality checks against rubrics where it is possible to automate the check. Other implementations of the API could be undertaken as needed by specific communities.
2. A REST-style interface and implementation that uses the library from the previous section to create reports with machine-readable and human-readable results that can be incorporated into various community systems.
3. We will extend the cross-repository DataONE Service API to include a metadata completeness service based on 4.2.2 for any DataONE dataset.  In addition to running the service on individual data packages, member repositories in DataONE will be able to request a repository-wide synopsis of their metadata content, as well as a user oriented summary report that can display a high-level synopsis of metadata completeness for end users to evaluate the utility of data packages for their use. This capability will be tested and evolved based on feedback from the community partners that are currently DataOne nodes (EDAC, NKN). Once functional at DataOne, we will extend the services described above to community partners that are not DataOne nodes (CUAHSI and IEDA).  In addition, we will incorporate use of the metadata evaluation service as a tool for metadata authoring into both the Mercury OME editor and the Morpho metadata editor and other metadata creation tools that are useful to partner communities.
